---
layout: post
title: From Business Major to Web Developer
---

It all started in high school in my small suburban New Jersey town where I had no idea where I wanted to go for college or what I wanted to study when I got there. All I knew at the time was that I had football or basketball practice right after school and I could not be late. I had not really given too much thought about my career but I did know that I was strong at math and I liked to create things. 

Based on what I knew about myself, I decided to apply to schools as an engineer and I was ecstatic when I got accepted to Boston University as a mechanical engineer. It just seemed like a perfect fit. I remember everyone saying that everyone often changes their major and I just thought it was a cliche but I soon discovered it to be true. Only one semester had passed and I realized mechanical engineering just wasn't for me. 

That's when I switched to BU's School of Management (SMG) now known as the Questrom School of Business to study finance and marketing. I loved it! The field wasn't quite as structured as mechanical engineering was but it still fit with my computational and black-and-white mind while still allowing me to be innovative and creative. More specifically, I discovered that I enjoyed working with data and discovering actionable insights so market research and consumer insights analysis was a natural fit for me in the business school. Simultaneously, I developed a true passion for working in sports due to a significant life experience that occured during my sophomore year. 

I go into more detail in a separate [post](http://sam-rosenshein.com/2016/06/29/why-i-love-sports.html "Why I Love Sports Today") but here is the rundown. I was in my second semester of school in Boston when the 2013 Boston Marathon Bombings happened only 15 minutes away from my dorm on campus. That day is a day I will never forget as I truly saw the strength of a city coming together. About a half of a year later, The Boston Red Sox were one game away from winning the World Series. 19 of my friends and I were fortunate enough to be in attendance for Game 6 as we were participating in a volunteer program called [Red Sox Green Team](http://boston.redsox.mlb.com/bos/ballpark/gogreen.jsp "Red Sox Green Initiatives"). The second the final pitch was thrown and the Sox won, the whole stadium and the city erupt in joy and it was the first time in months the city of Boston truly had something to celebrate. The moment was, to me, the defining image of a city overcoming adversity and Boston Strong and led to David Ortiz, a Boston icon, to famously exclaim, "Boston, this is our f'ing city!" That's when I realized the power sports have to create unforgettable and unpredictable experiences as well as bring an entire community together for good and I continue to strive to work in sports to help create more experiences like the one I had.

This is when I started to seriously aspire to work in a sports marketing role as a career. I was disappointed to discover that BU had neither a Sports Management degree or a similar sports management related club on campus. It was a shame because there were so many opportunities in a big sports city such as Boston with Fenway Park literally on BU's campus. A few friends and I decided at that moment to start BU's Sports Management Club where I was the president of. The main idea of the club was to expose those interested into the field through thought leader speaks, conferences, and general education about the field. Through the club, I was able to attend a local sports analytics conference held at MIT called the [Sloan Sports Analytics Conference](http://www.sloansportsconference.com/ "Sloan Conference"). This is where I developed an appreciation for tech, especially where it met sports and data analysis. 

At this point, it was already my senior year of college so it was too late to change my major again. Instead, I decided to explore my newfound interests in tech by taking an Intro to Database Management class and an Intro to Web Development where I learned the fundamentals of programming through Python, HTML, and SQL. It was by far the two favorite classes I took in college and they just made me want to learn more and more! I loved that programming has a set of general rules and best practices yet has a door wide open to be innovative and create whatever you want. It was the best of all of worlds!

Upon graduation, I enrolled in [Bloc's](http://bloc.io "Bloc") "coding bootcamp" to pursue my new passion where I learned best practices and built multiple projects utilizing Javascript libraries and frameworks such as Angular and jQuery as well as Ruby on Rails as showcased by this online portfolio. I soon discovered that it wasn't finding insights in data that I enjoyed but more of actually implementing the findings into something useful and informative for the user, in this case fans of sports! 

I was once asked if I considered myself to be more of a business-minded person or a technical-minded developer first. My answer was this: I consider myself to be an innovator that possesses the technical tools to create something that is both useful and user-friendly because of my understanding of business and marketing. 

I am now focusing on expanding my knowledge of the React library in order to develop elegant and user-friendly interfaces to allow fans of sports to easily connect with each other and the games they love. It's fascinating to me that despite bouncing around different things over the past few years, I was able to find something that has a little bit of everything I am passionate about and love doing. I don't know where my next step is going to be but I do know that I can't wait to get on the journey!